-- - -
## Becoming in the 3rd Verse

The _Evnieþ_ (lit. family) as they are called in 3V, also called the Puppeteers during 1V and 2V, is a group originally descending from the inventor of the [[Reading a Spell Entry#Spell School|School of Puppetry]] Marga Roid and her trusted followers since the end of 1V. For the entire 2V, this group was held together by two things: their blood relation, and the practical knowledge of the secretive School of Puppetry. Even when considering territory, the Puppeteers were spread all across [[Temuþan]], joining the different dragonlands under one condition: to never join the army, in order to never risk laying a hand against one of their own.

Since the Puppeteers were are a talented people, accepting them to the dragonlands meant getting a good labour force, which was ideal even without giving them the full rights and requirements as from full citizens. The one who changed this rule was, most surprisingly, [[Temuþen Gods#Alieca Roid|Alieca Roid]], a direct firstborn descendent of Marga and expected spiritual leader of the Puppeteers. After she was kidnapped and fled from her captors, led by the successor [[Temuþen Gods#Lirika|Lirika]], she managed to find a hiding place in the one place they would not find her: the [[Avsekoper|Copperland]] army.

In the year 8 3V, Alieca founded Urevneþ on the eastern end of the Silver Dragonland, as a beacon for Puppeteers from all around Temuþan to rally under the same banner, and face the Cataclysm as one people. Due to the help of Danro Fain, her loyal protector, the ground work was laid since before the Second Cataclysm started, starting from Alieca's being chosen as a successor, so the transition has been smooth enough.

With all pieces in place, Alieca launched an attack against the White Dragonland to Urevneþ's east, which has sworn loyalty to [[Gandecrala]] and so the new country got the support of [[Avsekoper|Copperland]], which attacked from its own west, squeezing the country on both fronts. Once the alliance was secured and goals started being met, Alieca started fighting on her western front as well, against the Silver dragonland, as an act of revenge against Lirika and to expand the territory for her people. The [[World Information/Realms/Temuþen Countries/Breniskal|Green Dragonland]], which saw the Silver as a weak ally who would not be able to truly help against Gandecrala due to its failing economy and weak army, as evident by the war against Urevneþ, preferred to show its support for the aggressor instead, to have it as an ally. Thus, the territory of the Silver Dragonland was split between the newfound [[World Information/Realms/Temuþen Countries/Breniskal]] and Urevneþ.
