Blessings are permanent boons given to those chosen by the gods or their direct followers - bishops, angels and missionaries - to those who have proven themselves worthy for such. They are rare, as the gods choose their blessings carefully - lest they are known for their rashness and be abused by the masses.

In-game, blessings can be used as rewards to heroic acts and allegiance to a god. Since they might start to break balance, granting a character more power than it typically would have, it is important for the game master to consider which characters truly deserve which blessings, and whether to give them in the first place. In high tiers of play, they might become a way for players to gain additional abilities which is not only powerful, but also contains a lot of flavor, and various non-player characters can show their influence and strength by having these alone. It is traditional for a character to have only up to one non-Successor, non-Undeath blessing, if they have one at all.

Corruptions, on the other hand, act as a token of the anomalies upon a creature to mark their influence over them. After each cataclysm, the release of magic causes manifestations of magic, called "anomalies", to appear all around the worlds and cause chaos and havoc. The anomalies act as a counteract to the gods, and as wild forces of nature, they attempt to restore balance by returning the world to what it was before intelligent life attempted to order it as they saw fit. Though anomalies decay over time, as does the power of the gods, the most powerful can even persist until the end of a verse, or have their magic sip into powerful items to create opportunities of risk and reward for creatures. As with blessings, characters can only have one corruption.
- - -
## Mechanics

The first thing worth remembering about epic influences is that they don't stack with themselves, meaning that for example, a creature cannot be blessed by the same blessing twice. Despite that, some influences have variants, from minor versions, to major and superior versions. The minor influences are most often given to characters in [[Progression and Levels#Tier 3 - 4th to 6th Level|tier 3]], the major influences in [[Progression and Levels#Tier 4 - 7th to 9th Level|tier 4]], and the superior influences to the rare few who manage to get to [[Progression and Levels#Tier 5 - 10th Level|tier 5]]. These different variants don't stack with each other either, meaning that only the strongest variant of the blessing applies, as the lesser blessing is replaced by the greater one.

Epic influences often break the traditional rules of the game - granting abilities from additional flat bonuses to attribute scores, to additional caster levels, to various other passive and active abilities. As they exist mostly outside of the normal ability space, normal limitations often don't apply either. For example, an epic influence can increase a creature's ability scores beyond 20, and they influenced might get additional caster levels or the ability to cast spells from them at all.